# CS340

The most important aspect of writing maintanable software is creating code that can be easily updated to accommodate changes. In spite of developers' best intentions, there is no such thing as future-proof code, and the only way that a program will be able to maintain its usability is if the program is designed to be adaptable. This is one of the biggest advantages of modular code, as it allows developers to make targeted updates to specific modules that address developing user needs. In this example, a Python module is used along with an HTML dashboard to read data from a database, and display that data in a useable format. This design, using the module as an intermediary between the dashboard and the database, allows the developer to easily adapt the system to use nearly any database. If the client decides, for example that they would like to use a different type of database, the developer has only to substitude a different python module (using the same function calls) and the system is ready to go.

When approaching a software problem, I prefer to start by determining the essential elements of the user's requirements. Typically, this looks like breaking down requirements into the individual modules that will satisfy them, and determining the best way to approach each one. It is often helpful to draw a map of interactions between the components, as a way of determining inputs/outputs for each part. In working with databases, I found this to be particularly relevant. I found that the best strategy in this case is to treat the database as its own module, beneath the 'model' layer. The model, therefore, interacts with the database and returns information based on the requests it is passed. This has numerous advantages, not the least of which being that it prevents the controller from directly querying the database and potentially compromising its security.

Computer scientists are very similar to engineers, except that, while engineers are soley responsible for designing components, computer scientists are responsible for both the design and the implementation of the systems that they work with. This places software developers in a very unique position; since they work through the implementation process themselves post-design, it is possible for good developers to continuously improve upon the design as it is implemented. In the case of a company like Grazioso, developers are able to produce software that allows the employees to quickly and easily manage data that would be near impossible to sort through manually. As they work through the project, feedback from the users can be leveraged to continuously improve the design. Because the developers are also the engineers, this means that they are able to translate customer feedback directly into action, using their existing knowledge of the program's design.
